I'm listening to this podcast called the
increments podcast these fellows are
critical rationalists I think they're
discussing meta-rationality this
philosophy or epistemology or who knows
what by fellow called David Chapman so I
just want to say a few things about both
I'm here on here chat talking about the
increments podcast which itself is
talking about a podcast to explain a
series on that podcast where they're
discussing uh uh a guy called David
Chapman and I wanted to explain podcast
with Chris lovekin uh he interviewed
Lily tenant and Jake orthwine the latter
of her is a fan of the work of David
Chapman David Chapman claims to have
criticism to critical racialism
sometimes other times he says he just
doesn't understand critical rationalism
he doesn't know what Deutsche popular
getting sir
he'd be a fellow to completely ignore if
not for the attention he's getting I'm
concerned I played a role in this at
some point the attention undeserved I
would say okay so why why am I saying
this
so doing a quick search on Twitter of my
interactions with this so-called
philosophical meaning this is the local
David Chapman this is 2016. I think I'm
just casual but so it's been about
casual search I mean it's been about a
decade since I first encountered this
and the only reason I took an interest
in it was I thought okay is anyone
seriously trying to defend from a
rational kind of perspective
post-modernism anyone modern and sure
enough on Twitter I've actually found
someone instead of a Chapman fellow who
was writing what I regarded as something
approaching nonsense in the postmodern
sense so you couldn't make it more tale
of it he said there was something deep
here a lot of people so there was some
deep people I basically ignored it and
then some intelligent people took out
the mantle but instead of critiquing the
ideas on the basis that they didn't try
and make themselves clear so I would say
Chapman someone's gonna fight the floor
he's not striving for clarity he's
striving for obfus gain he's driving to
make problems but there are no problems
I've written a whole series on this I've
recorded podcasts on this I find a
nonsense the reason that's coming out
now is because this new podcast
increments is now also discussing it it
just gets more and more attention and I
feel as though I'm responsible in some
sense because of all that time ago just
kind of bringing up his work and then
dismissing it as here's an example of
post-modernism in the Modern Age there's
a lot of it going around at the moment
there's a Marxist kind of post-modernism
in the modern gender War stuff okay but
is there any other similar kinds to this
where people are not trying to make
sense of the English language
circumstance but rather throw in shade
when you could be casting like I would
say this Chapman for low and meanness is
doing exactly that
about this entire thing called
nebulosity for example but never mind
all that
Chapman meaning this so it's called
nebulosity
all of this stuff I have one question
that continues to go unanswered in any
of these
interviews that are done about his work
he seems to rarely talk about it
anything you read about his work and
that simple question is as popular would
ask what problem are you trying to solve
that's it what problem does this
nebulosity stuff solve Papa's critical
rationalism exists precisely in order to
solve a whole bunch of problems that
people are asking sensible questions
about how science Works how mathematics
Works how is knowledge generated how did
we get from
Galileo to Newton to Einstein to Quantum
Theory how does the process work
induction didn't Solve IT none of the
pre-existing ways of approaching
personality solve that question until
proper canal and say hey this is what
we're doing we're asking questions we're
answering them by process of identifying
errors correcting errors that's it
so what does maybe velocity add to this
there is nothing anywhere in the
writings of Chapman running interviews
where they ever explain what problem
they're solving all they're doing is
what Wittgenstein did all they're doing
is what the post-modernist did all
they're doing is throwing shade on
Solutions and just saying I don't
understand how this is a solution you
know I don't understand popular in
epistemology uh therefore endorse my
nonsense my lack of clarity this is what
the postmodernists have always done they
don't like the fact that some people are
doing science Making Progress
actually providing you with Solutions
and so what they say is no no I'm a
smart person I'm not doing science but
hey science doesn't get to reality it
doesn't get to the final answer there is
no Final Answer Here's My Philosophy
that explains all of that nonsense
that's not the way any of this works
science producer Solutions how do we
know because it works why do we care
about that well that's where the
philosophy comes in that's where Papa
comes in that's where George comes in
what Chapman does in the modern versions
of postmodernism is to say I don't know
the post-modernist for rights you never
get the final truth but Papa never said
you're going to get the final trip
criticism critical rationalism isn't
about that and you know what when you
try and enter into a reasonable
discussion with these people what do
they do they say I'm not doing
philosophy if you're going to debate
with me about the merits of my new
epistemology called meaningless you're
missing the points because I'm not doing
philosophy I'm doing something else well
okay I can accept that but stop then
also saying that science doesn't get to
the truth or Papa make mistakes because
then you are engaging in a critical
discussion you can't have it both ways
if you're not doing philosophy then
don't engage with philosophical ideas
don't make strong claims but they do
that going back twice my simple response
all of this is they're just cult leaders
they're trying to start a new religion
and they don't like the fact there are
some people out here and they enjoy
among others who say of those kind of
movements you're not solving any
problems is making things worse
so here's my own work on this link to a
lengthy blog post linked to a lengthy in
that blog post link to a lengthy sort of
podcast I just might link the audio
comments on this stuff
and as I say throughout my writings and
throughout my speech on this before
there is zero here
um that contributes to solving of any
problems that helps people in any way
as Chapman himself the author of all of
this stuff wrote back in 2020 in a tweet
that I quote and I'll quote it again
here now quote I am not doing philosophy
end quote so very well then how do you
go about critiquing someone who says in
a philosophical discussion they're not
doing philosophy
because then you get to the person who
says he's explaining all this stuff this
is Jake orthwine fellow his lovely guy
great okay
after the author of all of this says
he's not doing philosophy explicitly
Jake who's you know who is to Chapman as
I suppose I am to Deutsch in some sense
since this author mine fellow has said
maybe lastly quotes maybe lost it isn't
just about Vegas or uncertainty it's
about reality
the claim is that reality is not
inherently divided into different
objects categories properties and
relationships this means even
propositions can't be definitely true or
false about it end quote
okay these two claims about what
nebulosity is strictly contradict
picture on the one hand Chapman the
author of this idea says it is not
philosophy and on the other hand author
says no no this nevelocity stuff is
about reality
so can we engage with this idea
critically or not on one hand we've got
the claim it's about reality okay let's
talk about reality no no you can't
critique me because I'm not doing
philosophy you misunderstanding me this
is all nonsense
what author says there and the remainder
of his tweet is nothing that contradicts
anything that Deutsche popper myself
more broadly tends to say you know as
Chapman's not adding anything here when
authine says
quite the claim is that reality is not
inherently divided into different
objects categories properties on
relationships and quick agreed fine so
again Watch Chapman adding what's new
let's go on even think of something this
means even propositions can be
definitely true or false about it and
quite true on the one hand you can't say
anything absolutely true about reality
that's the kind of popper challenge is
an improving property you can just
restating the case if that's what's
going on here
propositions can be definitely true or
false but not true or false about
reality this gets into the technicals
what I'm saying here is that both one
isn't contradicting proper Chapman is
like ah Chapman retreats to the position
that he's not doing philosophy anyway so
you can't critique him
this is I feel bad for having brought
him up a decade ago because from what I
said it then seems to have gone through
the critical reference community and
people taking this role very seriously
as if there's something substantive here
but there isn't and my point in bringing
it up in the first place was just to
dismiss it as an example it's just an
example there are many examples out
there in the world I could have picked
where I could say look
there are modern day philosophers and
cult leaders and movements that are not
making sense
they're producing nonsense it doesn't
help to solve any problems it confuses
people postmodernism marches have been
around for a long time
trying to gain followers by obfuscating
Throwing Shade and not enlightening
people between the opposite that's all I
was saying but now
even though these people are critiquing
the work of Chapman on these podcasts I
feel as if too much air time here I am
adding to it again I should probably
just shut up about it all I want to say
is post-modernism is a movement is evil
defunct evil in a technical sense even
in the sense that it's exacerbating
problems not improving them Chapman is
in this lineage his work I'm not saying
he's evil I'm saying he's confused but
his ideology leads like a straight line
into nonsense which leads to evil
I apologize for saying that that's just
a fact
which I say contradicts what Chapman
himself is said in tweets and he's not
doing what author and claims he's doing
Chapman says he's not doing philosophy
Chapman says he's not talking about
reality orphan says he is
the client that really is inherently
dividing different objects et cetera
propositions can be definitely true or
false about reality none of that
contradicts anything that Deutsch and
prophesy
in other words they're not identifying a
problem with anything in critical
racialism or in proper Deutsch nothing
of assault they're doing something
different and as I say my responsibility
is insofar as I'm not doing philosophy
and they're doing something more like
what Buddhism at times claims its own
which is not philosophy but self-help of
the client that's fine but stick to that
stick to saying what we're about is a
kind of internal subjective way of
thinking about minds that might help you
when you're going through a depressing
time you're confused whatever more power
to people who do that and so far as
people find help but don't then go on to
stay you're actually talking about
reality you're actually talking about
cups and objects and all this sort of
nonsense
when we do philosophy philosophy is the
queen of the Sciences it's there to try
and help you solve problems in Science
and Mathematics and reason more broadly
that's what it exists for
the self-help stuff is secondary to all
of that